Gwenevere Abriel: Gabriel
Gabriel L.: So I'm running a little late today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, sometimes that happens with these morons early morning hours.
Gabriel L.: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good.
Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I had a second to look over our last note and we were constructing the alcohol use.
Gwenevere Abriel: Be constructing
Gwenevere Abriel: The slip
Gwenevere Abriel: How has this week, then tell me about went ahead and kept using or kept blinking or mindset. I'm on point, like we've been in there.
Gabriel L.: Yeah, I kind of had a chance to
Gabriel L.: Go over how everything is everything is gone and
Gabriel L.: I hung out with Ashley's family.
Gabriel L.: And
Gabriel L.: We went to Oklahoma City.
Gabriel L.: For a little bit for like a couple days.
Gabriel L.: After her
Gabriel L.: And her family was leaving, so we just went with him to hang out a little
Okay.
Gabriel L.: That's pretty cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's, that's a story and it's not quite the answer to my question, but I like it.
Okay.
Gabriel L.: Um, yeah, it's it things have been going well. Things are going to like talk to them. Yeah. I talked to, I talked to him and my family about
Gabriel L.: You know what's been going on and
Gabriel L.: I told her I told Ashley. When I say finally guess I just mean actually
Gabriel L.: I told Ashley that
Gabriel L.: That I shared my relapse with you that she was happy with the she said the Julia said, Yeah.
Gabriel L.: You know, felt really good to tell somebody.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so that didn't actually create an argument. So there's something there that she likes
Gabriel L.: When you do. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And does she interpret that as an investment in your recovery when when you tell your treatment provider that you had a slip
Gabriel L.: Yeah, I guess.
Gabriel L.: I didn't, I don't know, I just
Gabriel L.: I just told her.
Gabriel L.: What she asked me how I feel. Usually after our meeting.
Gabriel L.: Yeah, I said, I feel good. And I told her I told her what happened.
Gabriel L.: She seemed a bit surprised.
Gabriel L.: But if again. So let her know to
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm having to not have to keep things to the self and we don't maybe call it lying, but we call it omitting
Gwenevere Abriel: Belief to not have to be holding secrets, just like it's all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what about this notion of
Gwenevere Abriel: The people that were sending you tax and it was now is going through emails and uncle. I think any any shift in that
Gabriel L.: No.
Gabriel L.: Not at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how many shots or beers have you had in the last seven days.
Gabriel L.: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: How did you accomplish that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, we know you were busy with family.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where are they drinking around you.
Gabriel L.: Well, they don't drink.
Gabriel L.: Drink or brother doesn't
Gabriel L.: Nobody does.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's an interesting thing. So do you see that that when it's not a family gathering and there's not already beer. There is no right already there. Is it easier for you because it's those those visual cues. Aren't there to drink.
Gabriel L.: Really
Gwenevere Abriel: doesn't make a difference. Well, how did you do it because you weren't weren't doing it before. How did you pull this off.
Gabriel L.: Well, we just
Gabriel L.: We just hung out. We went to a place called
Gabriel L.: Was a call Turner falls, we just say, busy, busy.
Gabriel L.: Busy, we went to a
Gabriel L.: There's a place in Amarillo that big Texas steakhouse, you're just
Gabriel L.: You know, just kept busy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Over there any places close that you are really had your heart set on
Gabriel L.: You know,
Gabriel L.: We went over there because because they're there.
Gabriel L.: They like open up the restaurants already and you know done a lot of stuff like that.
Gabriel L.: Here in New Mexico. Still, I'm still experiencing the
Gabriel L.: Just the quarantine is
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So also over these last seven days. How many times were you and Ashley in an argument or voices were raised.
Gabriel L.: Oh, you got a big argument, all the way back.
Gabriel L.: From there,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and you, you didn't think oh we did you have a thought. I want a shot.
Gabriel L.: Oh yeah, I think that all the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: And Boy George
Gwenevere Abriel: And what was the opposite thought. So you had. Oh, I could have a shot right now. What was the opposite. How did you counter it in your head.
Gabriel L.: I'm driving cross with my family.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so the tricky bit those. Yeah, that's true. But that's circumstantial like if you happen to have had the argument at a restaurant.
Gabriel L.: No, it wasn't. It wasn't really an argument.
Gwenevere Abriel: You try again. That was a convenient circumstantial construct or in a car driving
Gwenevere Abriel: The argument happen in a restaurant with a bar, how might that have been different, because you couldn't have us
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why it's not just looking around at my circumstances because that those will change, but you are the consistent thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: That brain of yours to counter it as fast as possible.
Gabriel L.: Yeah, here I'm you know I'm thought about the
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And this is at the core of what long term recovery will be like because wherever you are.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not about oh I can't do it. Now I can do it. Now I can do it. You know, I want to do it now. Look at this, look at this, can I can I can I
Gwenevere Abriel: Like it I'm not driving the car with the airlock, who now I can get away with it. Right. It's, it's, that's all circumstantial stuff. This has to do voice saying
Gwenevere Abriel: What am I feeling right now that I think alcohol.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I say alcohol. I need pills to just
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean any mood or anything. Yeah. So what am I feeling right now that that substance is a solution for this pure and simple go inward to see
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm in an argument with Ashley this frickin sucks. I want out of this feeling I feel helpless hopeless. I can't find a solution. Oh, I can drink. So we say feeling we go to that and say, My automatic thought is, and I want to
Gwenevere Abriel: Reach
Gwenevere Abriel: Out to myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the tricky bit is to take care of that actual core emotion.
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you are arguing
Gwenevere Abriel: Literally, when did you get back like I want to know how recent that that was
Gabriel L.: Day before yesterday evening.
Gabriel L.: Tuesday evening.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you're driving you're upset with each other you the only are you just use your proper
Gabriel L.: Oh, it's me, Ashley her grandma or brother, you
Gwenevere Abriel: In the car.
Gabriel L.: It's a car.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was just saying because an argument. So how he could have gotten. I don't know how your family roles in an argument. Y'all yelling with everybody in the car.
Gabriel L.: Well, no, just kind of
Gabriel L.: Back and forth a little bit
Gwenevere Abriel: You called it a big one, so I thought maybe this, it got heated like yelling
Gabriel L.: Um, no. But we said summer for things
Gwenevere Abriel: Where's it like whispered in the front seat like you
Gabriel L.: type thing, because we were just like, right here next to each other.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah, she's
Over
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, OK. So now let's do it now, as if we were back then. What was the emotion sitting here. She says hurtful things you hold on, let me just check them, what's up, dude.
You just work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Huh.
You
Gabriel L.: Probably a lot of anger and resentment.
Gabriel L.: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now these are ones you're familiar with you spend a lot of time with these guys, anger and resentment, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, yeah. So oftentimes this is where the cognitive behavioral piece can be helpful, which is so we say, okay, I'm feeling anger and I resent
Gwenevere Abriel: Now is it resent something. It's only in the moment I resent that nasty remark, or is it I wasn't years and years of something. Is it something more than just this simple interaction, right there in the car. What's the big resentment, or is it just an in the moment, resentment.
Gabriel L.: I think it's a little both
Gabriel L.: Okay, both
Gwenevere Abriel: Little one
Gwenevere Abriel: With the sub, she said.
Gabriel L.: What's up,
Gwenevere Abriel: What was the little resentment and then I'll go ask the big one.
Gabriel L.: Um, you know, just the way things are.
Gabriel L.: The way I can't voice my opinion without getting
Gabriel L.: You know yelled at, I guess, for lack of a better term.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so is it a little bit. Can I have content, like you said, Let's go take I five. And she said,
That's a stupid idea.
Gabriel L.: I wanted, I wanted to leave sooner.
Gabriel L.: And I wanted to get back to work.
Gabriel L.: And she said, no, the gen seen her sister in a while. So we have to stay and I said, what's the big deal. We've been here for she's been in Mexico. We've been there. So why can't we leave, you know, when I asked.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: You mean can we pay attention to that content that's pretty pretty interesting stuff. I'm just curious how you said it. So if I'm her. How did you say I want to leave.
So,
Gabriel L.: What are we, what are we leaving Oklahoma City and she said Tuesday when I said, why can't we leave Monday morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gabriel L.: And I said, she said, all because I want to spend time with my sister and I was like, what's the big deal. You spend time with your sister.
Gabriel L.: And then he got back to the one she sent to and she
Gabriel L.: hangs out with my family's there and what she's done stupid.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so can I can I offer
Gwenevere Abriel: Some input right in between.
Gabriel L.: You two talking to each other. Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Just going back to sort of fundamentals about why we
Gwenevere Abriel: Why asked for why we
Gwenevere Abriel: Get up when we don't get
Gwenevere Abriel: Why we have are motivated by anything
Gwenevere Abriel: Hiring
Gwenevere Abriel: Me. Let me tell you, myself, if you could have gone home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Earlier like Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: How would you have felt, do you think
Gabriel L.: I felt
Gabriel L.: Like her
Gabriel L.: Like, like my opinion matters.
Gabriel L.: You know,
Gabriel L.: We are actually argue back and forth because you know my opinions, like, Whatever she says goes like my opinion doesn't really matter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I can see
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're talking about
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: When you were in Texas or Oklahoma. Sorry, where you
Gwenevere Abriel: Watch the feeling you were having while you were there.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not your family. Family grew five. I'm fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: What was the reason sort of the emotion going on there.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you longed to have a different one and go home and work. What were you feeling when you were there right at the time when you said, hey, when it, when are we heading back
Gabriel L.: All that feeling when I asked that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, that's a key, a key one
Gabriel L.: I'm sure was feeling
Gabriel L.: Just
Gabriel L.: Let's brainstorm ago
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, now that see that I want to go home. That's a solution to something you were feeling so let's throw some out I'll brainstorm you come up with your own
Gwenevere Abriel: Like any mind. Cool. But that's the solution. I want to go home, you're, you're a grown man you know how to solve your own problems. Right, sure. Like, I want to go. But there's a reason you want to go wondering to yourself, why not I will stay longer.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's some going on. Yeah. So I saw some out your solution is I want to go home, you're something
Gwenevere Abriel: Left out lonely.
Gwenevere Abriel: Isolated
Gabriel L.: This probably born I was born, maybe
Gabriel L.: Board. Yeah, because we had already spent time with them. And, you know, after a while, I don't want to spend more time with her. She was on a leave
Gwenevere Abriel: I felt board. Yeah.
Gabriel L.: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: We do sort of a philosophical thing you know in your heart of hearts, Lord of heart of hearts that you have a right to be bored.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gabriel L.: Me too wars.
Gwenevere Abriel: You, you know what to do and you in your mind, you go, well, I have a solution calm early like working or maybe it really wasn't work. But you said it anyway. Hey, I can get back to work. And I think you get a lot of
Gwenevere Abriel: work you do. Well, that was your. So notice that it was the feeling is, I'm bored.
Gwenevere Abriel: And wanted to feel heard and that your, your opinion on the fact you felt board, isn't it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not an opinion.
Gabriel L.: You know, I just, I was just starting out, though, I want to go home or
Gabriel L.: Beautifully my own be my own stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what I hear the way let's just assume that you to set pretty much just the way you told me, which is, hey, when we, when we go home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh so central to stay till Tuesday. Oh, I want to go on Monday. Oh, because I want to spend time with my sister. You spend enough time with your sister already, haven't you, okay. So notice that neither one of you in this scenario.
Gwenevere Abriel: One another.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you were listening.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like if the therapist was in the room, or one of you embodied it for a second. This is what might have happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You want
Gwenevere Abriel: The same thing you want, which is she wants to have this good feeling. And she wants to be heard and understood. It's kind of weird, but right in the same moment that you're feeling not heard and understood
Gwenevere Abriel: 99.9% of time. That's the same thing the other person is going through. So the tricky bit
Gabriel L.: Are the
Gwenevere Abriel: fundamental things that I teach, which is
Gwenevere Abriel: You remember them on communication, the basics. See if we can remember
Gabriel L.: Listen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Super important
Gwenevere Abriel: I can go over it again. I just assumed pop quiz. Just to see though I'm not repeating myself and boring people
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see. I feel
Gabriel L.: I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: So, watch how this is different. I'm just asking her what the plan is because that's how I did it before, but instead. This time I spoke Ashley, I'm feeling bored a little antsy
Gwenevere Abriel: How would you feel about leaving a little, maybe they were you thinking of, of going
Gwenevere Abriel: And she might say, let's assume she makes no change. Let's say she doesn't know about the I feel. And she says, No, we're, we're gonna leave on Tuesday was one was spend more time with my sister.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Now remember, you're the one with the new skills. Not only have I have I said I feel bored kind of kind of thinking maybe we could had a little earlier.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I use the second skill which is
Gwenevere Abriel: You know how you said listening.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no way for me to know that you're listening unless
Gwenevere Abriel: You say something back
Gabriel L.: Well, of course.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gabriel L.: Of course,
Gwenevere Abriel: But not not but not a why question that's not listening. Listening is, I think, and this is a skill obviously is a zillion ways to listen. But one really cool way is we mirror back and we we say it like this. Oh, I see.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, Ashley. You want to stay till Tuesday, because you want
Gwenevere Abriel: Then guess what she feels heard and understood
Gwenevere Abriel: Now watch would be lovely. If you both were doing this still have I feel to the core feeling and and we can hear.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anything, because when you're just doing it on your united mean you might kind of feel like I'm doing it, but she's not showing that she's listening to me. What would be ideal that to you the sequence went like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm bored. This is you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm kind of bored can be like how maybe on Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: She says,
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, so you're
Gwenevere Abriel: kind of bored and whatnot out a little early did
Gwenevere Abriel: You say, yeah, I know you kind of probably enjoy spending time with your, your family, but I kind of a kind of stern getting antsy kind of want to work. And she said,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I get that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I really want to spend more time. I really miss her. And then you mirror
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, so. Hmm. You haven't had quite enough time with your sister. You want to kind of hang out with me Tuesday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, that's two pieces.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you see how just that part will go into problem solving in a second. But do you just see right there. The two of you because you talked about. And in fact, that she knew how to say the I feel like sale. I feel I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Sad. I miss my sister still really want another few more hours with her. I smell.
Gwenevere Abriel: That I might leave a bitter. You might be able to identify a feeling associated with wanting to linger and
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go back. How do you think it might have talked to each other like that portion of it.
Gabriel L.: I feel like we talked to each other like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: You said when we, when are we going home.
Gwenevere Abriel: She said we're going to stay and you said why I want to why or something like that. What are we leaving. Why can't, why can't we have leave Monday morning. I want to spend time with my
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just why an explanation why explanation why no one says how they feel.
Gabriel L.: Oh, I see what you're
Gwenevere Abriel: So guess what we do we keep showing each other how we feel.
Gwenevere Abriel: will pop up even bigger minds, really important. What is real important instead of
Gwenevere Abriel: Actually could say, I'm like crazy on Gabriel, I, I know you. And is there anything we can do here goes more to be more interesting.
Gwenevere Abriel: To spend time
Gwenevere Abriel: But if we got to the core emotion of it. The reason it's not just about
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for you, you still see them is the same.
Gabriel L.: I guess, not really because
Gabriel L.: You know that it doesn't leave a reason for why we say that way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because we're telling each other. Aren't we, because I've missed her very much
Gwenevere Abriel: Or I'm bored. I'm sorry about that would be hearing with my work. My feelings and my concerns, and then there's we don't really have to ask why do we, because we're already sharing
Gwenevere Abriel: Shared our feelings which is the motivation when our feelings or emotion or more
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm bored. I'm hungry, I'm angry. I'm I'm lonely sad. I'm frustrated. I'm anxious. That's why I'm talking I'm solving
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying to solve your boredom. She's trying to solve.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what the feeling is a miss. Somebody lonely sad, or I don't know what it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or maybe she's excited to see her sister hang out with her sister, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: And then
Gabriel L.: They were having a good time like us.
Gwenevere Abriel: But so, so here might be part of the issue of
Gwenevere Abriel: This stuff. I know I've taught this before, but it didn't stick
Gwenevere Abriel: It didn't stick, maybe because you're thinking you're already doing it.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you don't try say
Gwenevere Abriel: Wasn't the same. Now I want you to imagine
Gwenevere Abriel: If it had been where you talked about your boredom and she talked about her.
Gwenevere Abriel: She feel sad if she
Gwenevere Abriel: Might have gone that discussion.
Gabriel L.: I don't know, I think it would have gone the same
Gabriel L.: This is a stubborn person.
Gabriel L.: You know, she said in her way is that once you decided that we're leaving Tuesday. It's wondering when we left
Gabriel L.: That's, that's another reason why we get into arguments, because
Gabriel L.: If I disagree with her or something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah you you right it's back to this, this sort of power that she has or this illusion that she has
Gwenevere Abriel: Rights.
Gwenevere Abriel: To decision.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are your thoughts.
Gabriel L.: I'm sorry you're cutting out
Gwenevere Abriel: To try to get them.
Gabriel L.: Because it keeps doing it.
Gabriel L.: Now, what about her.
Gwenevere Abriel: This time it could be, it could be
Gwenevere Abriel: Controlling controlling you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: How many hours away.
From
Gabriel L.: I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's okay, how many hours away.
Gabriel L.: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: How many hours away, were you from the place in Oklahoma City.
Um,
Gabriel L.: We were about eight hours.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright.
Gabriel L.: I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Just like in this bottom
Gabriel L.: jump around.
Gabriel L.: And get a better connection.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm gonna wait. Cuz that some
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of a bad connection.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Gonna look in
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, test, test, test, how are you doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I think it might might have improvement there.
Gabriel L.: Eight hours from where she lives where her sister lives or sister Elizabeth
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Gabriel. Can you hear me.
Gabriel L.: I can hear well
Gwenevere Abriel: When you just let's take away all of the conversation part I still think it needs some some discussion, but just take the this feeling of boredom.
Gabriel L.: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Not the first time I've heard from you that when you get bored. It can be
Gwenevere Abriel: A trigger for years you're drinking or using. You don't want to be bored.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not the only way to solve our boredom, let's think through what you could have done then and what you could do the next time boredom comes up, what could you have done or what did you end up doing to solve the boredom.
Gabriel L.: Oh, well, you know, I was just hanging out my nephew playing video games with skateboarding for a little bit, um,
Gabriel L.: rode a bike round.
Gabriel L.: Look at the city there wasn't. I mean,
Gabriel L.: I don't find something new.
And you did.
Gabriel L.: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So boredom is gonna come up again. We all get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the only solution that I have ever seen is kind of what you did. It means if I'm standing in line waiting at the motor vehicles.
Gwenevere Abriel: I find something interesting. And I'll analyze these people that I'm around
Gwenevere Abriel: All start thinking about something I haven't thought about for a while, but I, I am responsible for my boredom. I've got to solve it. And much like what you did play video games and went skateboarding you handled it.
Gabriel L.: Huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. So I like I like what you said you took care of yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the bigger piece that it's going to probably continue. It's been there. It's been a source of stress for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are the power differential between you and Ashley.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there any interest to have a couples therapy like two or three of them with her.
Yeah.
Gabriel L.: I'm that
Gabriel L.: Before
Gwenevere Abriel: Now she here's how it could go. I'm going to tell you how oftentimes the spouse because I do it with a lot of my clients like just like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: They'll come in and I'll meet with them. It's an intervention. I'm not your couples therapist forevermore. But I am is I'm addressing because it's it's a primary stressor for you. Gabriel
Gwenevere Abriel: You're feeling I think helpless. At times, almost like the victim I she's got this power. Michelle, take the keys, blah, blah, blah. With the lease. I can't. My say my opinion. My feelings of
Gwenevere Abriel: What I want our second always to hers 90, not always, but so that dynamic continues to show up over and over and over and I am concerned about your sobriety, you had
Gwenevere Abriel: It wasn't just one day you've had days you're you've been having those those shots and then pills and it got to the point where if they were around, you might have kept going. So I'm concerned.
Gwenevere Abriel: And as a therapist, I think, Well, I want to address the underlying emotions, the distress the cognitive distortions anything that's going on underneath so that alcohol and pills are not the best solution for you that you can remember and think of Oh snap, I can go to these other things.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the dynamics between you two concerns me
Gabriel L.: Yeah, it's a big issue.
Gabriel L.: Sometimes I'll just
Gabriel L.: entertain the thought that I'm leaving and
Gabriel L.: Building a new life and
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so just imagine that's the worst case right leaving this this this marriage. So just imagine
Gwenevere Abriel: That somewhere before. That is, listen, Ashley.
Gwenevere Abriel: I see a therapist. She's a marriage and family therapist. That's her formal training, she's been doing this for over 20 years she's interested in creating an opportunity for us to talk to each other about
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going on, or for us.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now here's the thing. I will tell you, Gabriel, most people, most spouses and girlfriends or boyfriends. This is what they're thinking. I, my guess is Ashley will think this there is no way I'm talking to when she's on your side.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's called a bias and she's right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I happened to be really good at being objective, so no one would actually see it, but I always announce it, I say, no matter what, I'm always going to be Gabriel's therapist.
Gwenevere Abriel: Rest of my life. That's it. Done Deal. Once I I signed on with you, forevermore. That's the case unless it's like when
Gwenevere Abriel: You anymore actually can work with you. You know what I mean, like, there's a real significant event that happens, it doesn't just
Gwenevere Abriel: Become this thing, it's, it's, for me, it's very intentional and deliberate. Everybody knows what's going on. So I say it out loud, and I say, you know what, yes. Ultimately, I want
Gwenevere Abriel: I want Gabriel's goals to be reached and and it seems like there's some tension between you two that just kind of keep showing up. And what I'd like to do today is teach the skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: And here's what I say. Gabriel, I say, I'd like to teach some basic communication skills. I will teach skills. If you guys decide to not talk about any content.
Gwenevere Abriel: meanie Gaga you guys could talk about fluffy stuff for all I care because it's about you guys having these skills because, wouldn't it be nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: If Ashley had the same I feel skills and mirroring skills. And what about validation. What about problem solving, wouldn't it be amazing if you two could talk to each other. Both of you using those skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: You would feel heard, she would feel heard, each person feeling respected.
Gwenevere Abriel: Instead of you feeling like a one down position so often. So it would be me teaching
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I say. I say we, okay, you guys. You can either talk about big heavy stuff. That's your choice. I can handle it. But
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like to be able to teach the skills so you can talk about. Listen, I like the toilet paper rolled under and you like it over and it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Like a know painful topic that you know an easy breezy or, you know, I like the plates, blah, blah, blah, blah. Something that's really neutral.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're nobody's getting pissed off. I say you can pick an easy breezy one or a fictitious one that's fine, just to learn the skill or if you want to seize this opportunity.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can go for it. You can talk about deeper ones we just won't be able to get as far into the to the skills, but I let you guys decide if if you feel safe enough to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But mostly, the first time is a neutral topic, something like you know who washes the car. This week, something that's not going to really get anybody in a in a ruffle.
Gwenevere Abriel: What would be a neutral topic for you to that you think you could use this content.
Gabriel L.: Maybe the the the
Gabriel L.: Place. We're moving to she likes talking about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and you like talking about it.
Gabriel L.: Why don't make them happy. So I thought,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, there's okay there's enough of a difference because what will happen is, she would say,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, I feel happy talking about, you know, shopping and exploring and going on Zillow and Baba, Baba. And then you would say, oh, let me see if I understand this Ashley, you feel happy and excited when you get a chance to sort of shop and sort of fantasize about the house, you know,
Your house.
Gwenevere Abriel: That would be you mirroring and then you would do one. Okay, what would be what would be a kind of not a hot topic, but something that you could share how you feel.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not too hot.
Gabriel L.: Vacation. I like talking about places we have a vacation to
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, and then. So you would say, Hey Ashley. I like I like talking about all the different places. We can go, what would you feel excited when we talk about going to Peru and you know all the preparation for it and and she would say, so let me let me get this right. Gabriel
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't happy.
Gwenevere Abriel: When, when we get to talk about crew and all the different mountains and all the different people and all the logistics of it and you say, yeah, that's it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, now. So then you get those skills and then I would want to know.
Gwenevere Abriel: A little bit of tension topic, not a hot one not 100 if it's zero to 100 just an itty bitty, one that's like you kind of get that lawyer, not a big grow but a little one.
Gabriel L.: Just an irritation.
Gwenevere Abriel: She doesn't we're not creating this really intense moment but one where you can actually say, I feel anxious, a little irritated frustrated sad, lonely, something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Little
Gabriel L.: Um, once you leave my phone calls and that really bothers me.
Gabriel L.: Yeah, we're gonna privacy or I can't talk to, like,
Gabriel L.: My mother on a personal level, because she's screaming everything I say there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so notice you catch yourself saying that really bothers me so that might be a little hot. See if there's a slightly less one maybe something around the house that she does that is only on the ear, not really bothers me. But just annoys
Gabriel L.: When I'm not listened to, when my when I know my opinion doesn't matter.
Gabriel L.: When I get a feeling that my opinion doesn't matter that bothers me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, I know, but it isn't a little that's huge. You're so funny. Do you have any smaller rotations, like I hate that she leaves the hand tell on the counter.
Gwenevere Abriel: One.
Gabriel L.: I don't think so. I think
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Gabriel L.: Dear what I'm liking a little girl.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I have seen that. Here's the neat thing if she goes for it. It does mean that she has to trust what you're saying that I'm a safe person that she can talk to in that she will not be attacked by me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the truth because on some level, she may know and
Gwenevere Abriel: Enjoy this power differential that she has over you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm going to be a scary person who might call her out on that. But that is not what I'm going to do it is only about helping her feel hurt. So if you want to sell this idea, this is how it goes. Hey Ashley. You know how sometimes you don't feel heard from me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this might be a great way for you to actually be able to really feel heard, meeting whenever you're an eye for a couple interventions or just a meter was just to get a feel for it. She wants to teach these sort of fundamental communication skills, would you be up for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see it how it would be about helping her
Gabriel L.: Okay.
Gabriel L.: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'd have to be generous Gabriel, you'd have to do the one you'd be the one mirroring and it would be for the purpose of helping her feel safe in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You get that you already are safe. I mean, no. I know you still get like pissed off of me now. And again, but for the most part you you know
Gwenevere Abriel: I think, you know, I'm not going to cut you down. I'm not going to make funny. I'm not going to
Gwenevere Abriel: come at you with with blame and shame and so she needs to have that feeling too, and she won't stay if we don't start with helping her feel heard, that's how this works because you already have me right
Gwenevere Abriel: She's got to get old on it. You're a salesman, you get this right.
Gwenevere Abriel: He feel safe. She'll talk
Gwenevere Abriel: If not, she'll be defensive all humans, all of us do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: We have to feel safe. Number one, nothing else can come before it.
Gabriel L.: I think she'll be up for it.
Gabriel L.: Yeah.
Gabriel L.: Like an understanding person, but I just whenever I challenged her opinion, it's, it's like she's always right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but that's what
Gwenevere Abriel: This structure puts constraints on the way people talk to it isn't just like well I think it did it. Now, it slows time town where normally we can have crammed in all kinds of back and forth statements justifying why we're right
Gwenevere Abriel: It slows time down to about two sentences. Doing it sits right there possibly for the whole hour and you've seen me do it with you too. I'll take something you said, and we'll just like pick it apart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just acting it to its at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm excited. Now, here's my other question, so what you saw is you have enough sort of confidence that Ashley can can overcome maybe uncertainty and fear and that she might be able to learn these skills in here. What about your
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't want to say, I don't know that it's pride or ego but need to be heard. Can you sit with me, starting with her first can you be the mirror and listener. First, or will it hurts your phone.
Gabriel L.: Yeah, yeah, this will work best. Yeah, of course. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've stripped I'm pretty strategic about it, I do it very intentionally because you already. You're like, yeah, just talk to her. It's cool. It's cool. It's cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just tell her. But you already have that report with me. She is going to be like, is this lady Gwen going to attack me
Gwenevere Abriel: Most people are like that, they don't know, they don't have a read on anybody right when you first meet someone, do you wonder I'm thinking to be judgmental. I mean, right. So we want to create safety for girls.
Gabriel L.: Or
Gwenevere Abriel: You can set that aside for you then. So go for it. Anytime you let me know you can my texting is just dead I my phone is just worthless to me right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was in Albuquerque. The text everybody I blasted everybody for today's appointments and then i i don't know what anybody said back to me because I ain't got no reception.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm really hard to get ahold of but I'm, I'm, do you have my my email to
Gabriel L.: You know, without a big, so you know, I don't think so.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can you take it down. I have a feeling because of your name Gabriel. My email is going to probably memorize really
Gabriel L.: Can
Gwenevere Abriel: You text you and I will do it. If for some reason, it actually goes through that would be groovy. I'll try.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's Gabriel at
Gwenevere Abriel: Bright heart health, no spaces com so bright heart at bright heart health com Gabriel at bright heart health. Want to see if this actually goes through over here in Santa Fe.
Gabriel L.: But you said here in Santa Fe right now.
Gabriel L.: That's cool. How are you liking it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm liking it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm really
Gabriel L.: I like Santa Fe. I used to work in Santa Fe, a lot. Now go out there once a week. Oh yeah, I got
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so our text because Mine's blue. So it says, do you have an iPhone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. I think that's one of my text succeed because when people have an iphone eight they actually get delivered. Otherwise, I get this big red exclamation mark saying not delivered lady try
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, so. Okay, that's good. Hey, let me know if you guys want to meet. I'm, I'm really proud of you, though for for getting through that argument and not and not having a drink.
Gabriel L.: Yeah and you know it was funny, talking about, you know, actually, said the same things like I'm really, really proud of you.
Gabriel L.: Talking to whine about what happened.
Gabriel L.: Older. You know, I talked to somebody
Gabriel L.: So good forget to get that out, you know, because I felt a little bit of shame and guilt inside and sometimes I can say that anybody even Ashley, you know, like, oh,
Gabriel L.: I don't know.
Gabriel L.: Software like God, there's no
Gwenevere Abriel: And the same with the with the with the I can't remember whether they were Percocet, or hydro is that you picked up the other day.
Gabriel L.: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, the people in our
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah oxy yeah they might say, oh, what does this mean are you years. Is this going to be forever. You can use her so they can kind of blow it out of proportion.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you use the term slip
Gwenevere Abriel: Versus or the word lapse instead of relapse and I know it may seem like a word game, but I like the distinction between a relapse would look like you would if you wouldn't be talking to me anymore. You'd say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Screw you, lady. I'm out.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to talk like I tell her anything because you know you've already decided to stick with using. So a slip is when I asked you the other day, even though it was really hard to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: You told me the truth. And you told Ashley that gets you back on track. This is part of it for many people there are slips, but I kind of, not that I want people to have them, but they're so informative because we get to say
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you get to both be really impressed and proud of the progress you made, and every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can't really let 100% our guard down, we still need to be intentionally selecting and choosing health building skills and and staying emotionally regulated. So there is this sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Relaxed vigilance for the rest of our life we all are. We're all just like, Huh, I need to be mindful of my health. It never goes away. We do. We all have to be mindful of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the frequency of those thoughts. I want to drink on a drink will go down that I can tell you, I mean, I'm not omnipotent, but they're going to decrease
Gabriel L.: Yeah.
Gabriel L.: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You're like, yeah, when
Gwenevere Abriel: When
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm Gabriel. I'm going to look at my my agenda and see one of the reasons why you and I connected back to back two weeks.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, in a row was because of that. Are you still feeling like you want to keep meeting weekly to connect or do you want to move to bi weekly what would work for you.
Gabriel L.: I think we're scheduled for next week already early
Gwenevere Abriel: I have, I have a gal. I have a gal. It's a pretty I have booked already 7am I'm already booked for next week. I don't see your name here. Let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if we real quick, we get we don't meet next week, unless there's something going on, you can reach out to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you know if it turns out that that you and Ashley want to do something and I'm free in an evening, since I'm on your timezone it's not as catastrophic it's you know what I mean when you guys say six o'clock. It's actually six o'clock, and it's not eight o'clock, my time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Little bit more reasonable for me. So just stay in touch me with texting, see if it's a pencil. But otherwise, I really want something on the books for us so that I can protect our individual therapy and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm in the morning or she would the baby.
Gabriel L.: washes the baby right now. But you know, I usually just about
Gabriel L.: You prefer
Gabriel L.: An afternoon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like a time would you say
Gabriel L.: Anytime like three to
Gabriel L.: Work.
Gabriel L.: Working from home. So not a big deal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Might be done by three or two. Okay, so why don't I pur pur pur pur pur pur pur pencil you in
Gwenevere Abriel: For two ah I 2pm
Gwenevere Abriel: On June 16 that gives you plenty of time to talk with her about it.
Gabriel L.: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, what about your work schedule. Is that going to completely freak you out though.
Gabriel L.: No, no worries.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I've got and I put Ashley and then for us if she can't attend you could either stick with that one. Or you and I could already plug in June, June 11 at 7am
Gabriel L.: OK.
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, so for us, let's let's review our next individual therapy, sure thing will feel a lot like today, which is a Thursday, June 11 7am
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we're hoping to maybe even have even if she's there for half like Hey, hey, I'm so glad you're here. Just wanted to teach a couple of really cool convenience sort of communication skills. It's the I feel will do a couple of exchanges.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's really helpful in in sticky situations to be able to talk about our underlying feelings about why we have this perspective opinion and point of view, and it can really shorten
Gwenevere Abriel: What normally an argument could last maybe three or four hours or 24 hours or three days can shorten to like 20 minutes or 10 minutes, it can go much, much, much faster faster. So it's efficient.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's what I wrote is like penciled you in this is what you want to talk to her about is June 16 at 2pm Mountain Standard
Gwenevere Abriel: And give it a thank you and it looks like our texting. I honestly, but if you don't hear from me. Just know that it could be. I'm not ignoring you. It could really be that that was lucky we got lucky on that text Exchange you don't try say so.
Gwenevere Abriel: I also can't call from it. So you wish.
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gabriel L.: I mean, we should be able to get something going. I mean, I don't see why those days when work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we'll go, we'll go with that. And I'm going to message, your, your physician. I've been doing it regardless of whether people need medication or just say hey, Gabriel attended individual therapy and he's scheduled for his next appointment, so I will get to see you in group on Friday.
Gabriel L.: Very good. Yes, I will be there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Fantastic. I'll see you then.
Gabriel L.: Bye.